In this video,
we'll discuss what paths are and
how to find your way as it travels
along the nodes and edges of the graph.
Let's start with an example.
For this example,
we'll consider an edge weighted
graph with no loops as shown here.
Term edge weighted means
the edges have weights.
The weight of the edge I to J is 15.
We can think of this graph as a small road
network, where the nodes are cities, and
the edge weights are highway
distances between them.
To walk, or traverse, through this
graph we'll define what a walk is.
A walk is an arbitrary
sequence of nodes and
edges that starts from some node and
ends on some node.
Here we can go from H to F
to G to C to
F to E to B.
Notice that in this walk,
we went through the node F twice.
In many applications, we do not want
to consider arbitrary walks but
consider a walk where
we do not repeat nodes
unless we need to come back
to the starting point.
Such a constrained walk is called a path.
The green arrows indicate
a path from J to B.
We said on the last slide that a path
can start from a node and end on it.
Such a path is called a cycle when
the path has a three or more nodes.
The J, G, C,
F, J, is a four node cycle,
sometimes called a four cycle.
C, F, E is a three cycle.
However, although there is an edge from
F to J and another from J back to F,
this two node path is not
a cycle by our definition.
A network with no cycles
is called acyclic.
A graph that is both directed and
acyclic is called a directed
acyclic graph, in short, a deck.
A trail is a concept similar to a path,
it is a walk with no repeating edges.
In the graph shown in the walk,
H, F, G, C, F, E,
C, F, J, is not a trail.
Because C, F Is traversed twice.
Remember the seven bridges of
the Konigsberg problem that we described
in module one?
In that problem,
we had the constraint that one
cannot cross the same bridge twice.
Often we see such constraints
in path planning problems.
A common notion in directive
graphs is called reachability.
If there is a path from node U to node V,
V is reachable from U.
Reachability is not symmetric.
Even if V is reachable from U,
U may or may not be reachable from V.
As we can see in this graph,
I is not reachable from A.
Look at A more carefully.
There is no outgoing edge from A at all.
So no node in this graph
is reachable from A.
A is a terminal, a leaf node of the graph.
Where do we see this in real life?
Think of road network with one way streets
and road blocks through the construction.
This can make some areas
unreachable by cars.
In biology,
there are gene regulation networks,
in which the nodes represent genes and
edges represent the fact that gene
A regulates gene B and not visa verse.
This makes it a directed graph.
We can easily think of a case where
A regulates B, and B regulates C, but
C does not regulate B or A.
That's making A unreachable from C.
The final concept you will
explore in this graph,
in this lecture,
is that of a graph diameter.
The diameter of a graph measures the
maximum number of steps, also called hops,
want us to traverse to go to
the most distant node in the graph.
That means,
if you go from an arbitrary node
to any other arbitrary node in the graph,
following only the shortest paths roots,
what is the maximum number
of steps you have to take?
Let's see how this is computed.
For this task, we'll create a matrix
called the shortest hop distance matrix.
Just like the adjacency matrix, the rows
and columns here represent graph nodes.
And each cell contains the distance
from the I eighth node,
to the G eighth node
via the shortest path.
The distance from any
node to itself is zero.
So all diagonal elements
of the matrix are zero.
If a node I cannot reach
node J through any path,
the distance is marked as infinity.
Thus, the distance from
B to C is infinity.
You can go from E to F in two steps,
E to C to F.
Therefore, the wait at the C cell is two.
If you fill this matrix, you will
notice that the largest reachable value
is 4 in doing the infinite distance.
Thus, the diameter of this graph is
4 where It represents the part from I
to A, through J, G and D.
There are a few noteworthy
items in this Distance Matrix.
The row of A has a value of 0 with itself
and infinity for every other node.
This happens because A is a leaf node.
Similarly, except for
the 0 distance with itself,
the H column has infinity for
all of the nodes.
This happens because H
has no incoming edges and
therefore no other node can reach H.